Metadata can be found throughout the rmd file or the manuscript that is associated with this code and data, which is currently being prepared for submission. Please see abstract pasted below. 
Hematophagous triatomine vectors of the Chagas disease parasite, Trypanosoma cruzi, have a wide bloodmeal host breadth but only mammals are parasite-competent reservoirs. Accordingly, the transmission of T. cruzi is dependent on triatomines encountering mammalian hosts. We hypothesize T. cruzi-exposed triatomines exhibit a preference for mammalian versus non-mammalian hosts, as compared to un-exposed triatomines. We used a dual choice olfactometer to present individual, T. cruzi-exposed and un-exposed, starved triatomines (Triatoma gerstaeckeri) to pairwise combinations of no host, dog, human, and chicken. We found that un-exposed T. gerstaeckeri preferred dogs over chickens and humans, but T. cruzi-exposed T. gerstaeckeri had no host preference. Additionally, T. cruzi-exposed T. gerstaeckeri took less time to begin advancing towards hosts and spent time on both sides of the olfactometer. Lastly, we also tested Rhodnius prolixus in the olfactometer and found no clear preference but they did advance towards hosts more often and at a faster speed, compared to T. gerstaeckeri. These documented behavioral differences between triatomine species and T. cruzi exposure status illustrate that R. prolixus and T. cruzi-exposed T. gerstaeckeri increased locomotion in the presence of hosts may promote increased transmission via ingestion of a T. cruzi-exposed triatomines.
